---
title: "Colour Schemes and Supermarkets"
date: 2019-03-10T06:00:35+13:00
---

{{<
  figure
  caption="The Lounge/Bedroom or my current AirBnB"
  src="/img/2019_03_09.jpg"
  alt="Landwehrkanal"
  position="center"
>}}

I changed up my terminal colour scheme today. It's been a while since I've
changed it. A few years ago I created a tool "terminal.sexy" which is still
running - though it seems to have developed some bugs on it's own.

This is what I've got so far:

{{<
  image
  src="/img/colorscheme.jpg"
  alt="Landwehrkanal"
  position="center"
>}}

I went for a walk to the shops today, to pick up some supplies. I was looking
for ALDI - which is a discount supermarket - but ended up walking into Bauhaus
- which is the German equivalent of Bunnings. I wasn't sure how to walk out
without purchasing anything, so I looked around for something to buy so I could
leave. I spent about 20 minutes browing thermometers, paint brushes and lamps
but I didn't want to buy anything. In the end I thought the staff were getting
suspicious because I'd started walking in circles so I just avoided eye contact
and walked past the checkout and to the nearest door.

I couldn't find ALDI but I did find an organic food store - "denn's Biomarkt".
It was a very nice store with everything lovingly laid out, and the man at the
checkout was smiling and in a good mood. I paid 2€ ($3.30) for a carton of oat milk,
which isn't bad - Countdown are selling a similar milk for $4.19. 

Fun fact, show.countdown.co.nz can't be directly accessed from Germany.

Leaving the Biomarkt I found the entrance to ALDI and had a look inside.
It's like a small messy Pak'n'Save - I had difficulty finding anything I needed
and skipped outside.

The next store I visited was "dm-drogerie markt" - which had a lot of non-food
items available for sale and nicely organized. They had a great range of
shaving products - I'm looking to buy some preshaving cream, but I don't know
what the German word for that is yet...

The fourth supermarket I found was "EDEKA Fiebig". All these stores are right
next to each other. This was the fanciest supermarket I had seen yet,
equivalent to a New World. They also had just about everything I needed, and it
was pretty easy to find my way around. 

---

Other than supermarkets I also visited the Uniqlo in Alexanderplatz.  They get
a decent rep on /r/malefashionadvice, but we don't have them in New Zealand. I
just wanted to buy a scarf (I lost my previous one in a taxi) and they had nice
checkered one on sale for 2.90€. The queue for the checkout was quite long,
it's quite a popular store. I'm quite prod of myself for understanding when the
woman asked me if I wanted a bag in German. I'm quickly learning how to buy
stuff at stores.

1. Join the queue
2. When it's your turn, greet the cashier with "hallo" or "guten Tag".
3. Wait for them to scan your items
4. Read the total cost from the monitor and give them enough cash to cover it
5. Wait for your change (I haven't figure out how to say "Keep the change" when
   it's only 1 cent - I have a jar full of small change now)
6. They will ask if you want a "kassenzettel" which is the receipt - I usually
   reply "nein bitte".
7. Collect your items, say "danke schön!" and leave
