---
title: "Washing Machines"
date: 2019-03-15T08:07:08+13:00
---

I'm currently living out of a small duffel bag, and only have so many pairs of
clothes, so I need to wash them all about every 4 days.

Today is washing day.

{{<
  figure
  caption="The Constructa Viva 1000"
  src="/img/2019_03_14_viva.jpg"
  alt="Washing Machine"
  position="center"
>}}

The AirBnB I am staying in has a washing machine in the bathroom. The
Constructa Viva 1000 - a front loader. It's an older machine, the plastic has
started to yellow, the window is covered in a brown dust and the soap drawer
has something growing inside it. While the labels are all in German, someone
had thankfully scrawled on english translations with a marker, though most of
these had faded and were unreadable.

The machine door sits ajar, I pile in my laundry and try to shut the door. It
doesn't stay shut so I wiggle it a bit until it finally snaps closed with a
sharp click. I press the button marked "Ein Aus" (on/off) and swivel the
washing dial but nothing happens.  I try pressing more buttons and rotating the
other dials, but still the machine just sits there.  I begin to wonder if this
machine works at all, and decide it's probably best to wait until the host gets
back to ask him how to use it. 

That's when I notice a lone sock still in my laundry bag - I had missed it
earlier. I pick it up and go to open the door to add it in. The door is quite
stiff, so I pull harder but still it doesn't open. I try wiggling it, and
pressing buttons, but the door remains locked tight. I try everything I can to
get the door open, though careful not to pull so hard that I risk damaging the
machine, but no luck. My shirts, socks and undies sit trapped inside as
prisoners of the machine.

I'm quite concerned at this point, as I start to realise that this machine may
be broken and I shouldn't be using it all. I quickly google for "how to open
stuck washing machine door" and find some YouTube videos suggesting I try to
disconnect the power and wait 5 minutes. So I disconnect the power and wait 5
minutes. The machine doesn't seem to notice.

I then google videos of people using the Constructa Viva 1000. Maybe there is
some sort of obvious trick to opening the door that I was overlooking.
Surprisingly, someone had actually filmed a Constructa Viva 1000 for over 15
minutes while it did a quick wash. I skipped straight to the end and watched as
they turned the machine off and then slid out the soap drawer before simply
opening the door. I thought aha! I need to slide out the soap drawer. So I rush
to the bathroom to try. The door stays locked.

I try again and again, pressing "Ein Aus" for the millionth time, rotating all
the doors to all possible positions and yanking on the door. I slid the down in
and out, and then suddenly the machine whirs into action, and my clothes start
spinning around in circles. This is a great sign, because it means the machine
isn't broken and that I will at least have clean clothes. I configure the
machine to do a short wash, and leave it while I make dinner.

After dinner, I return to the machine, confident that now it has finished it's
duty, the door will be unlocked and can I hang out my clothes. I try to the
open door again, and nope, still locked tight. I examine the latch closely, but
can't see any way of opening it without potentially damaging the machine. I
decide the best thing to do is to wait for the host to return, surely he will
know how to open it and we will have a laugh about how silly I've been. Surely.
